apps/docs/src/development/packages/storybook-utils.md, before:

---
outline: [2, 3]
---

<script lang="ts" setup>
import packageJson from "../../../../../packages/storybook-utils/package.json";
</script>

# @sit-onyx/storybook-utils

<div class="hide-external-link">

[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/@sit-onyx%2Fstorybook-utils.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sit-onyx/storybook-utils)

</div>

{{ packageJson.description }}.

## Changelog

A full changelog can be found [here](/development/packages/changelogs/storybook-utils).

## Installation

Install the npm package with your corresponding package manager:

::: code-group

```sh [pnpm]
pnpm add -D @sit-onyx/storybook-utils@beta
```

```sh [npm]
npm install -D @sit-onyx/storybook-utils@beta
```

```sh [yarn]
yarn install -D @sit-onyx/storybook-utils@beta
```

:::

## Utilities

### createPreview

Creates a default Storybook preview configuration for a project that uses `onyx`. Includes the following features:

- Improved controls (sorting and expanded controls so descriptions etc. are also shown in a single story)
- Improved Vue-specific code highlighting (e.g. using `@` instead of `v-on:`)
- Setup for dark mode (including docs page). Requires addon [`@vueless/storybook-dark-mode`](https://github.com/vuelessjs/storybook-dark-mode#readme) (maintenance form of previous [`storybook-dark-mode`](https://github.com/hipstersmoothie/storybook-dark-mode/issues/295#issuecomment-2938151892)) to be enabled in .storybook/main.ts file
- Custom Storybook theme using onyx colors (light and dark mode)
- Configure viewports / breakpoints as defined by onyx
- Logs Vue emits as Storybook actions

::: code-group

```ts [.storybook/preview.ts]
import { createPreview } from "@sit-onyx/storybook-utils";
import "@sit-onyx/storybook-utils/style.css";

const preview = {
  // we need to destructure here because as of Storybook 7.6
  // it can not statically analyze that the `preview` variable is an object
  ...createPreview({
    // optional overrides...
  }),
};

export default preview;
```

```ts [.storybook/main.ts]
import type { StorybookConfig } from "@storybook/vue3-vite";

const config: StorybookConfig = {
  addons: ["@vueless/storybook-dark-mode"],
  // ...
};

export default config;
```

:::

### withVModelDecorator

Defines a custom decorator that will implement event handlers for all v-models.
So the Storybook controls are updated live when the user interacts with the component.

```ts [.storybook/preview.ts]
import { withVModelDecorator } from "@sit-onyx/storybook-utils";

export default {
  decorators: [withVModelDecorator()],
};
```

### createTheme

Creates a custom theme for Storybook that uses onyx colors.
See the [Storybook Theming docs](https://storybook.js.org/docs/configure/theming) for further information.

::: tip
If you are using [`createPreview()`](#createpreview), the custom light and dark theme will already be set up for you.
:::

::: code-group

```ts [.storybook/manager.ts]
import { createTheme } from "@sit-onyx/storybook-utils";
import { addons } from "storybook/manager-api";

addons.setConfig({
  theme: createTheme({
    base: "light", // choose whether you want a light or dark theme
  }),
});
```

```ts [.storybook/preview.ts]
import { createTheme } from "@sit-onyx/storybook-utils";
import type { Preview } from "@storybook/vue3-vite";

const preview: Preview = {
  parameters: {
    docs: {
      theme: createTheme({
        base: "light", // choose whether you want a light or dark theme
      }),
    },
  },
};

export default preview;
```

:::

### withNativeEventLogging

Allows logging and documentation for the passed native event listeners in Storybook.
These will be documented in a extra "Relevant HTML events" section in the Storybook documentation.

```ts [.storybook/preview.ts]
import { withNativeEventLogging } from "@sit-onyx/storybook-utils";

const meta: Meta<typeof OnyxButton> = {
  title: "Buttons/Button",
  component: OnyxButton,
  argTypes: {
    somethingElse: { ...someOtherArgType },
    ...withNativeEventLogging(["onClick"]),
  },
};
```

### createActionLoggerWrapper

Wraps the original component and adds [Storybook action logging](https://storybook.js.org/docs/essentials/actions).
This is useful for slotted child components that emit relevant events.

Returns a wrapped component, which can be used in place of the original component.

```ts
import { createActionLoggerWrapper } from "@sit-onyx/storybook-utils";
import _ChildComponent from "./_ChildComponent.vue";

// Usual story setup...

/**
 * Wrapped child component
 */
const ChildComponent = createActionLoggerWrapper(_ChildComponent, ["onChildEmit"]);

/**
 * Use in a story like you usually would:
 */
export const Default = {
  args: {
    propName: 'Value'
    someSlot: () => h(ChildComponent, { label: "Item 1" }),
  },
} satisfies Story;
```

Commit message:

feat(storybook-utils): format code snippets with prettier (#3839)
closes #3619

Format Storybook code snippets with prettier. Can be tested by opening
http://localhost:6006/?path=/story/navigation-navbar--with-context-area

## Checklist

- [x] The added / edited code has been documented with
[JSDoc](https://jsdoc.app/about-getting-started)
- [x] A changeset is added with `npx changeset add` if your changes
should be released as npm package (because they affect the library
usage)
- [x] I have performed a self review of my code ("Files changed" tab in
the pull request)
- [x] All relevant changes are documented in the documentation app
(folder `apps/docs`) if needed

---------

Co-authored-by: Jonathan <jonathan_leo.carle@mail.schwarz>
Co-authored-by: github-actions[bot] <41898282+github-actions[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

apps/docs/src/development/packages/storybook-utils.md, after:

---
outline: [2, 3]
---

<script lang="ts" setup>
import packageJson from "../../../../../packages/storybook-utils/package.json";
</script>

# @sit-onyx/storybook-utils

<div class="hide-external-link">

[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/@sit-onyx%2Fstorybook-utils.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@sit-onyx/storybook-utils)

</div>

{{ packageJson.description }}.

## Changelog

A full changelog can be found [here](/development/packages/changelogs/storybook-utils).

## Installation

Install the npm package with your corresponding package manager:

::: code-group

```sh [pnpm]
pnpm add -D @sit-onyx/storybook-utils@beta
```

```sh [npm]
npm install -D @sit-onyx/storybook-utils@beta
```

```sh [yarn]
yarn install -D @sit-onyx/storybook-utils@beta
```

:::

## Utilities

### createPreview

Creates a default Storybook preview configuration for a project that uses `onyx`. Includes the following features:

- Improved controls (sorting and expanded controls so descriptions etc. are also shown in a single story)
- Setup for dark mode (including docs page). Requires addon [`@vueless/storybook-dark-mode`](https://github.com/vuelessjs/storybook-dark-mode#readme) (maintenance form of previous [`storybook-dark-mode`](https://github.com/hipstersmoothie/storybook-dark-mode/issues/295#issuecomment-2938151892)) to be enabled in .storybook/main.ts file
- Custom Storybook theme using onyx colors (light and dark mode)
- Configure viewports / breakpoints as defined by onyx
- Logs Vue emits as Storybook actions
- Source code transformer that formats the code snippets with prettier and adds imports for used icons, flags and onyx components

::: code-group

```ts [.storybook/preview.ts]
import { createPreview } from "@sit-onyx/storybook-utils";
import "@sit-onyx/storybook-utils/style.css";

const preview = {
  // we need to destructure here because as of Storybook 7.6
  // it can not statically analyze that the `preview` variable is an object
  ...createPreview({
    // optional overrides...
  }),
};

export default preview;
```

```ts [.storybook/main.ts]
import type { StorybookConfig } from "@storybook/vue3-vite";

const config: StorybookConfig = {
  addons: ["@vueless/storybook-dark-mode"],
  // ...
};

export default config;
```

:::

### withVModelDecorator

Defines a custom decorator that will implement event handlers for all v-models.
So the Storybook controls are updated live when the user interacts with the component.

```ts [.storybook/preview.ts]
import { withVModelDecorator } from "@sit-onyx/storybook-utils";

export default {
  decorators: [withVModelDecorator()],
};
```

### createTheme

Creates a custom theme for Storybook that uses onyx colors.
See the [Storybook Theming docs](https://storybook.js.org/docs/configure/theming) for further information.

::: tip
If you are using [`createPreview()`](#createpreview), the custom light and dark theme will already be set up for you.
:::

::: code-group

```ts [.storybook/manager.ts]
import { createTheme } from "@sit-onyx/storybook-utils";
import { addons } from "storybook/manager-api";

addons.setConfig({
  theme: createTheme({
    base: "light", // choose whether you want a light or dark theme
  }),
});
```

```ts [.storybook/preview.ts]
import { createTheme } from "@sit-onyx/storybook-utils";
import type { Preview } from "@storybook/vue3-vite";

const preview: Preview = {
  parameters: {
    docs: {
      theme: createTheme({
        base: "light", // choose whether you want a light or dark theme
      }),
    },
  },
};

export default preview;
```

:::

### withNativeEventLogging

Allows logging and documentation for the passed native event listeners in Storybook.
These will be documented in a extra "Relevant HTML events" section in the Storybook documentation.

```ts [.storybook/preview.ts]
import { withNativeEventLogging } from "@sit-onyx/storybook-utils";

const meta: Meta<typeof OnyxButton> = {
  title: "Buttons/Button",
  component: OnyxButton,
  argTypes: {
    somethingElse: { ...someOtherArgType },
    ...withNativeEventLogging(["onClick"]),
  },
};
```

### createActionLoggerWrapper

Wraps the original component and adds [Storybook action logging](https://storybook.js.org/docs/essentials/actions).
This is useful for slotted child components that emit relevant events.

Returns a wrapped component, which can be used in place of the original component.

```ts
import { createActionLoggerWrapper } from "@sit-onyx/storybook-utils";
import _ChildComponent from "./_ChildComponent.vue";

// Usual story setup...

/**
 * Wrapped child component
 */
const ChildComponent = createActionLoggerWrapper(_ChildComponent, ["onChildEmit"]);

/**
 * Use in a story like you usually would:
 */
export const Default = {
  args: {
    propName: 'Value'
    someSlot: () => h(ChildComponent, { label: "Item 1" }),
  },
} satisfies Story;
```
