apps/docs/src/development/index.md, before:

---
outline: [2, 3]
---

# Getting Started

<div class="hide-external-link">

[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/sit-onyx.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/sit-onyx)

</div>

## Changelog

A full changelog can be found [here](/development/packages/changelogs/sit-onyx).

## Nuxt

If you are using [Nuxt](https://nuxt.com), please head over to our [Nuxt module documentation](/development/packages/nuxt) to get started.

## Installation

::: tip Prerequisites
We assume that you already have a Vue application set up.
If thats not the case we recommend you first hop over to the [Vue Quickstart Docs](https://vuejs.org/guide/quick-start.html#creating-a-vue-application). Follow the steps there and then continue with the onyx setup here.
:::

### Step 1: Install dependencies

Install the npm package with your corresponding package manager:

::: code-group

```sh [pnpm]
pnpm add sit-onyx@beta
```

```sh [npm]
npm install sit-onyx@beta
```

```sh [yarn]
yarn install sit-onyx@beta
```

:::

### Step 2: Imports

After that, import the global CSS file:

::: code-group

```ts [main.ts]
import { createApp } from "vue";
import { createOnyx } from "sit-onyx";

import "sit-onyx/style.css";

// by default, no onyx styles will have side affects on your global application styles like <body> etc.
// when building a whole application with onyx, we recommend also importing the following global styles
// which will apply the correct application background color, font styles etc.:
// import "sit-onyx/global.css";

const onyx = createOnyx({
  // if you are using the Vue Router, make sure to pass it here be enable the router integration for onyx
  // router: createRouter(),
});
const app = createApp(App);

app.use(onyx);
```

:::

### Step 3: Install fonts

Finally, install the recommended onyx font families by following our [typography docs](/development/typography#installation).

### Step 4: Use components

Components are now ready to be used, e.g.:

```vue
<script lang="ts" setup>
import { OnyxButton } from "sit-onyx";
</script>

<template>
  <OnyxButton label="Click me" />
</template>
```

You can check all onyx components and their documentation in our [Storybook](https://storybook.onyx.schwarz).

## First steps <Badge text="recommended" />

Here are some further steps we recommend to take a look at when setting up your new application:

### Layout components

onyx provides [layout components](https://storybook.onyx.schwarz/?path=/docs/layout-about-layouts--docs) for easily setting up common layouts for the app, pages etc. which also take care of ensuring correct scroll containers etc.

Here is an example how a default application looks like when using layout components:

```vue
<script lang="ts" setup>
import { OnyxAppLayout, OnyxPageLayout, OnyxNavBar } from "sit-onyx";
</script>

<template>
  <OnyxAppLayout>
    <template #navBar>
      <OnyxNavBar app-name="My app" />
    </template>

    <OnyxPageLayout> Your page content here... </OnyxPageLayout>
  </OnyxAppLayout>
</template>
```

### Customize CSS

For most cases, all onyx components already provide properties to easily use supported features.
However, there might be some custom requirements in your project where you need to override styles / CSS.

All onyx components are designed to be easily customized with custom CSS. Just look up the CSS class that you
want to customize via your browser dev tools and define custom CSS as shown below.

#### Option 1: In a single Vue file <Badge text="recommended" />

For most cases when overriding onyx styles, we recommend to override them inside a single `.vue` file with [scoped styles](https://vuejs.org/api/sfc-css-features#scoped-css)
so the changes only affect components in this file and do not have global side effects on other components of your application.

Note the usage of the `:deep()` selector. For more information, see the [Vue docs](https://vuejs.org/api/sfc-css-features#deep-selectors).

::: code-group

```vue [MyComponent.vue]
<style scoped>
:deep(.onyx-input__label) {
  color: red;
}
</style>
```

:::

#### Option 2: Globally

Be careful when overriding styles globally since it will affect **EVERY** component in your application.

::: code-group

```css [styles.css]
.onyx-input__label {
  color: red;
}
```

:::

## Browser Support

<script lang="ts" setup>
import BrowsersList from "../.vitepress/components/BrowsersList.vue"
</script>

onyx works best with the following browser versions. Older versions might also work but we can't guarantee full compatibility.

<BrowsersList />

::: details More information (.browserslistrc file)

<<< @include ../../../../.browserslistrc{txt}
:::

## Next steps

- [Theming](/development/theming), e.g. for setting up the dark mode
- [i18n](/development/i18n) if you are supporting multiple languages in your application
- [Grid](/development/grid) for easily implementing custom layouts

Commit message:

feat(dist)!: add dedicated entrypoint for bundlers (#3641)
Relates to #3435 

- Updated `sit-onyx` vite build:
  - Use [`vite-plugin-dts`][4] for type generation
- Add `bundler` build, which provides better developer experience by
providing logging, better readable source-code and source-maps
  - Drop commonjs support and switch to publish a [Pure ESM package][1].
This also requires to add the `.js` file extension for all relative
imports. Because
    1. **[esm loader requires explicit file-extensions][2]**
    2. **[tsc doesn't rewrite file extensions][3]**
  - This also fixes the current publint warning
- Added `userConsole` util to allow logging and warning user, but is
also tree-shaken in production builds.


[1]:
https://gist.github.com/sindresorhus/a39789f98801d908bbc7ff3ecc99d99c
[2]: https://nodejs.org/docs/v22.17.0/api/packages.html#modules-loaders
[3]:
https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/modules/theory.html#module-specifiers-are-not-transformed
[4]: https://www.npmjs.com/package/vite-plugin-dts

---------

Co-authored-by: github-actions[bot] <41898282+github-actions[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>
Co-authored-by: JoCa96 <18483883+JoCa96@users.noreply.github.com>

apps/docs/src/development/index.md, after:

---
outline: [2, 3]
---

# Getting Started

<div class="hide-external-link">

[![npm version](https://badge.fury.io/js/sit-onyx.svg)](https://www.npmjs.com/package/sit-onyx)

</div>

## Changelog

A full changelog can be found [here](/development/packages/changelogs/sit-onyx).

## Nuxt

If you are using [Nuxt](https://nuxt.com), please head over to our [Nuxt module documentation](/development/packages/nuxt) to get started.

## Installation

::: tip Prerequisites
We assume that you already have a Vue application set up.
If thats not the case we recommend you first hop over to the [Vue Quickstart Docs](https://vuejs.org/guide/quick-start.html#creating-a-vue-application). Follow the steps there and then continue with the onyx setup here.
:::

::: warning Pure ESM
**onyx** only exports EcmaScript modules, as it is a **[Pure ESM package](https://gist.github.com/sindresorhus/a39789f98801d908bbc7ff3ecc99d99c)**.
Therefore it cannot be `require()`'d from CommonJS.
We recommend to read [_The dual-package hazard_](https://nodejs.org/en/learn/modules/publishing-a-package#the-dual-package-hazard) on this issue.
:::

### Step 1: Install dependencies

Install the npm package with your corresponding package manager:

::: code-group

```sh [pnpm]
pnpm add sit-onyx@beta
```

```sh [npm]
npm install sit-onyx@beta
```

```sh [yarn]
yarn install sit-onyx@beta
```

:::

### Step 2: Imports

After that, import the global CSS file:

::: code-group

```ts [main.ts]
import { createApp } from "vue";
import { createOnyx } from "sit-onyx";

import "sit-onyx/style.css";

// by default, no onyx styles will have side affects on your global application styles like <body> etc.
// when building a whole application with onyx, we recommend also importing the following global styles
// which will apply the correct application background color, font styles etc.:
// import "sit-onyx/global.css";

const onyx = createOnyx({
  // if you are using the Vue Router, make sure to pass it here be enable the router integration for onyx
  // router: createRouter(),
});
const app = createApp(App);

app.use(onyx);
```

:::

### Step 3: Install fonts

Finally, install the recommended onyx font families by following our [typography docs](/development/typography#installation).

### Step 4: Use components

Components are now ready to be used, e.g.:

```vue
<script lang="ts" setup>
import { OnyxButton } from "sit-onyx";
</script>

<template>
  <OnyxButton label="Click me" />
</template>
```

You can check all onyx components and their documentation in our [Storybook](https://storybook.onyx.schwarz).

## First steps <Badge text="recommended" />

Here are some further steps we recommend to take a look at when setting up your new application:

### Layout components

onyx provides [layout components](https://storybook.onyx.schwarz/?path=/docs/layout-about-layouts--docs) for easily setting up common layouts for the app, pages etc. which also take care of ensuring correct scroll containers etc.

Here is an example how a default application looks like when using layout components:

```vue
<script lang="ts" setup>
import { OnyxAppLayout, OnyxPageLayout, OnyxNavBar } from "sit-onyx";
</script>

<template>
  <OnyxAppLayout>
    <template #navBar>
      <OnyxNavBar app-name="My app" />
    </template>

    <OnyxPageLayout> Your page content here... </OnyxPageLayout>
  </OnyxAppLayout>
</template>
```

### Customize CSS

For most cases, all onyx components already provide properties to easily use supported features.
However, there might be some custom requirements in your project where you need to override styles / CSS.

All onyx components are designed to be easily customized with custom CSS. Just look up the CSS class that you
want to customize via your browser dev tools and define custom CSS as shown below.

#### Option 1: In a single Vue file <Badge text="recommended" />

For most cases when overriding onyx styles, we recommend to override them inside a single `.vue` file with [scoped styles](https://vuejs.org/api/sfc-css-features#scoped-css)
so the changes only affect components in this file and do not have global side effects on other components of your application.

Note the usage of the `:deep()` selector. For more information, see the [Vue docs](https://vuejs.org/api/sfc-css-features#deep-selectors).

::: code-group

```vue [MyComponent.vue]
<style scoped>
:deep(.onyx-input__label) {
  color: red;
}
</style>
```

:::

#### Option 2: Globally

Be careful when overriding styles globally since it will affect **EVERY** component in your application.

::: code-group

```css [styles.css]
.onyx-input__label {
  color: red;
}
```

:::

## Browser Support

<script lang="ts" setup>
import BrowsersList from "../.vitepress/components/BrowsersList.vue"
</script>

onyx works best with the following browser versions. Older versions might also work but we can't guarantee full compatibility.

<BrowsersList />

::: details More information (.browserslistrc file)

<<< @include ../../../../.browserslistrc{txt}
:::

## Next steps

- [Theming](/development/theming), e.g. for setting up the dark mode
- [i18n](/development/i18n) if you are supporting multiple languages in your application
- [Grid](/development/grid) for easily implementing custom layouts
