apps/docs/src/development/router.md, before:

# Vue Router integration

onyx nicely integrates with the [Vue Router](https://router.vuejs.org/) of your application. This brings the following features:

- when passing links to components (e.g. OnyxLink or OnyxNavBar), internal links like `/my-page` or opened via the provided Vue router. External links, internal links with `target="_blank"` or if no router is provided, will be opened using browser-native behavior.
- mobile flyouts of the OnyxNavBar (burger and context menu) will automatically be closed when the current route changes (e.g. because the user has clicked a nav item)

## Setup

::: tip Nuxt
If you are using the onyx [Nuxt module](/development/packages/nuxt), the router setup is already configured for you.
:::

To enable the Vue Router integration with onyx, simply pass your router instance when creating the onyx plugin via `createOnyx()`:

::: code-group

```ts [main.ts]
import { createApp } from "vue";
import { createOnyx } from "sit-onyx";
import { createRouter } from "vue-router";

const router = createRouter({
  // your router options
});

const onyx = createOnyx({ router });

const app = createApp(App);
app.use(router).use(onyx);
```

:::

Commit message:

feat(router): implement auto active state for nav buttons and items (#2680)
Relates to #447

- by default OnyxNavButton, OnyxNavItem and OnyxMenuItem will now manage
their active state automatically based on the current router path if
provided
- group demo app pages under "Demo" nav button

## Checklist

- [x] The added / edited code has been documented with
[JSDoc](https://jsdoc.app/about-getting-started)
- [x] All changes are documented in the documentation app (folder
`apps/docs`)
- [x] A changeset is added with `npx changeset add` if your changes
should be released as npm package (because they affect the library
usage)

---------

Co-authored-by: github-actions[bot] <41898282+github-actions[bot]@users.noreply.github.com>

apps/docs/src/development/router.md, after:

# Vue Router integration

onyx nicely integrates with the [Vue Router](https://router.vuejs.org/) of your application. This brings the following features:

- when passing links to components (e.g. OnyxLink or OnyxNavBar), internal links like `/my-page` or opened via the provided Vue router. External links, internal links with `target="_blank"` or if no router is provided, will be opened using browser-native behavior.
- the active state of the OnyxNavButton, OnyxNavItem and OnyxMenuItem will be automatically set depending on the current route
- mobile flyouts of the OnyxNavBar (burger and context menu) will automatically be closed when the current route changes (e.g. because the user has clicked a nav item)

## Setup

::: tip Nuxt
If you are using the onyx [Nuxt module](/development/packages/nuxt), the router setup is already configured for you.
:::

To enable the Vue Router integration with onyx, simply pass your router instance when creating the onyx plugin via `createOnyx()`:

::: code-group

```ts [main.ts]
import { createApp } from "vue";
import { createOnyx } from "sit-onyx";
import { createRouter } from "vue-router";

const router = createRouter({
  // your router options
});

const onyx = createOnyx({ router });

const app = createApp(App);
app.use(router).use(onyx);
```

:::
