---
title: Density
description: Density adjusts the vertical space of components to optimize layouts for various screen sizes and improve data scannability.
---

## Introduction

Density refers to the amount of vertical white space within a component and the height of its primary interactive element. To provide a flexible toolkit for various user preferences and device capabilities, this design system offers three density levels: Compact, Default and Cozy. These levels use fixed base heights of 32px, 40px and 48px.

<layout-container>
<steps>

:::step
#headline
Compact <onyx-tag label="32px base height" color="primary" />

#default
High-density layouts maximize information density and optimize limited screen space for expert interfaces, data-heavy dashboards, and complex data grids.
:::

:::step
#headline
Default <onyx-tag label="40px base height" color="primary" />

#default
The standard baseline balances scannability with visual comfort across all devices for most enterprise and general-purpose applications.
:::

:::step
#headline
Cozy <onyx-tag label="48px base height" color="primary" />

#default
Content-focused layouts utilize spacious white space to increase readability and reduce cognitive load for touch-friendly interfaces and simplified workflows.
:::

</steps>

<density-preview />
</layout-container>

## Usage

When selecting a density, it will apply to the selected component as well as to all nested components unless they explicitly define another density.

::content-tabs
#dev
You can change the density using the `density` **property** of supported components or by applying the below **CSS classes** to **any** elements of your application.

<div class="onyx-grid">
  <copy-card class="onyx-grid-span-4" value="onyx-density-compact">.onyx-density-compact</copy-card>
  <copy-card class="onyx-grid-span-4" value="onyx-density-default">.onyx-density-default</copy-card>
  <copy-card class="onyx-grid-span-4" value="onyx-density-cozy">.onyx-density-cozy</copy-card>
</div>

```vue [Example density usage]
<template>
  <OnyxButton label="Button" density="compact" />
  <!-- or -->
  <div class="onyx-density-compact">Your custom component</div>
</template>
```

#ux
To change the density in Figma, use the [mode selection](https://help.figma.com/hc/en-us/articles/15343816063383-Modes-for-variables#h_01H3ADKDF7JBTRV1Z5P1X1DZVE) on the page, frame, layer or component that you want the density to be applied to.

:video-player{src="/videos/figma-change-density.mp4"}
::
