---
title: Variables
description: Design variables are key-value pairs that serve as the single source of truth for visual properties, ensuring cross-platform consistency through a semantic naming structure and a unique prefix.
---

Design variables are fundamental, reusable key-value pairs that represent specific design attributes such as color, typography, or spacing. They ensure consistency and streamline development across all platforms. Variables must be preferred over plain values to e.g. ensure that [colors](/introduction/foundation/colors) adapt automatically between light and dark mode or spacings are updated depending on the selected [density](/introduction/foundation/density).

::info-card{headline="Developers and designers"}
Design variables are used by both developers and designers to ensure customizability while maintaining a unified visual identity.
::

## Architecture

Our variable system uses a three-layer architecture though only the semantic variables are relevant / accessed directly during application development.

<steps>

::step
#headline
Global variables

#default
Global variables provide a context-free foundation for the design language by systematically storing plain values — such as colors and spacing. They are NOT intended to be used directly in custom components or applications.

Example: `onyx-color-system-red-500`
::

::step
#headline
Semantic variables <onyx-tag label="used by applications" color="success" />

#default
Semantic variables map global variables to fundamental contexts/ use cases and automatically adapt between light and dark mode. They allow developers and designers to build (custom) components with a clear usage intent and guaranteed theme switching.

Example: `onyx-color-text-icons-danger-intense`
::

::step
#headline
Component variables

#default
Component variables are restricted to the design system maintainers to manage unique overrides and exceptions within specific components, such as a primary button's hover state. They are NOT intended to be used directly in custom components or applications.

Example: `onyx-color-component-calendar-background-today`
::

</steps>

## Usage

For a full overview of available variables, please refer to the following pages:

<div class="onyx-grid">

<link-card class="onyx-grid-span-4 onyx-grid-md-span-6" headline="Colors & Themes" link="/introduction/foundation/colors"></link-card>
<link-card class="onyx-grid-span-4 onyx-grid-md-span-6" headline="Typography" link="/introduction/foundation/typography"></link-card>
<link-card class="onyx-grid-span-4 onyx-grid-md-span-6" headline="Density" link="/introduction/foundation/density"></link-card>
<link-card class="onyx-grid-span-4 onyx-grid-md-span-6" headline="Animations" link="/introduction/foundation/animations#durations"></link-card>

</div>

<br />

We use a strict naming convention for all variables to ensure clarity and avoid conflicts with custom application variables. Therefore, all our variables are prefixed with "onyx". Due to technical reasons, variables are separated by dashes in development and by slashes in Figma - meaning these usages refer to the same variable: `--onyx-color-text-icons-neutral-intense` (development) and `onyx/color/text/icons/neutral/intense` (Figma).

::content-tabs
#dev
All our variables are represented by [CSS custom properties](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Guides/Cascading_variables/Using_custom_properties) so they can easily be used in CSS using the [var()](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/CSS/Reference/Values/var) function:

```css [Apply variables in CSS]
.my-component {
  color: var(--onyx-color-text-icons-neutral-intense);
}
```

#ux
Use Figma's variable menu and select "Libraries" to see and apply available variables. For further information, please refer to the [Figma documentation](https://help.figma.com/hc/en-us/articles/15343107263511-Apply-variables-to-designs).
::
