---
title: Images
description: Images are essential visual elements that convey information, enhance aesthetics and improve the overall user experience. Follow our fundamental recommendations to make sure images are used effectively.
---

## Usage

We recommend following the below key principles when using images:

<steps>

::step
#headline
Color gamut

#default
Select images where a single primary hue (e.g., blue, green, or red) dominates the composition.

<!-- TODO: add image here -->

**Tip:** Use varying color gamuts across different pages to provide users with subtle visual cues for navigation and orientation.
::

::step
#headline
Natural lighting

#default
Prioritize soft, authentic light sources to maintain a grounded and realistic aesthetic.

<!-- TODO: add image here -->

**Tip:** Avoid over-processing or applying highly stylized filters that make the image look artificial.
::

::step
#headline
Authentic snapshots

#default
Choose "candid" imagery that feels like a captured moment in time rather than a staged production.

<!-- TODO: add image here -->

**Tip:** Every photo should feel like a real-life snapshot of a normal, unscripted action.
::

::step
#headline
Direct authenticity

#default
Use "pure" photography that has not been digitally manipulated or constructed.

<!-- TODO: add image here -->

**Tip:** Every asset must feel captured by a camera, never constructed on a computer.
::

::step
#headline
Technical quality

#default
Verify that every asset meets high-fidelity technical standards before implementation.

<!-- TODO: add image here -->

**Tip:** If individual pixels are visible, the image is not fit for use.
::

</steps>

## Sources

In general you are free to use any image source. But pay attention on the licensing for those images. We are **not responsible** for any kind of license or legal violations. To prevent this, we recommend to use either your own copyright images or royalty free sources like:

<auth-only>

::info-card{headline="Adobe Stock" color="neutral"}
Schwarz internal employees can also use [Adobe Stock](https://stock.adobe.com) with our company license.
::

</auth-only>

- [Unsplash](https://unsplash.com)
- [Pexels](https://www.pexels.com)
- [Pixabay](https://pixabay.com)

## Accessibility

Images must have a descriptive alternative text to be accessible for all users. This ensures that users with visual impairments or those using screen readers can still understand the content conveyed by the image. It _can_ only be provided technically and must not necessarily be displayed visually. The alternative text is also used when the image can not be loaded.
