---
title: Layouts
description: Different layouts are the best way to focus the users attention and create hierarchy. Additionally, a well chosen layout serves as a guiding hand for the user to work with the application. Our recommended way to create both an attractive and accessible layout is to follow the principles below.
---

## Core principles

The following fundamental principles are recommended for every layout:

<steps>

::step
#headline
Responsive

#default
Layouts must be adaptive, ensuring structural integrity and usability across all devices and screen sizes.
::

::step
#headline
Content-driven

#default
The layout must be dictated by the content, not the other way around. Prioritize the structural needs of information before selecting a layout pattern.
::

</steps>

We strongly recommend using our [grid system](/introduction/foundation/breakpoints-and-grid) for ensuring responsive and consistent layouts.

## Page anatomy

This section defines the global regions of an application. In its most comprehensive form, a typical page consists of four regions:

<layout-container>
<steps>

::step
#headline
Main navigation

#default
Provides access to top-level pages and global interactions. This region is persistent (fixed at the top or left) and independent of the scroll container. See our [OnyxNavBar](https://storybook.onyx.schwarz/?path=/docs/navigation-navbar--docs) component for the technical usage.
::

::step
#headline
Sidebar

#default
Facilitates navigation within a master-detail structure or provides secondary interactions. It remains fixed to the side of the screen (left or right). See our [OnyxSidebar](https://storybook.onyx.schwarz/?path=/docs/navigation-sidebar--docs) component for the technical usage.
::

::step
#headline
Page content

#default
The primary area for displaying information. This section is flexible, governed by our [grid system](/introduction/foundation/breakpoints-and-grid) and serves as the main scroll container of the interface. See our [OnyxPageLayout](https://storybook.onyx.schwarz/?path=/docs/layout-pagelayout--docs) component for the technical usage.
::

::step
#headline
Bottom bar

#default
A global region at the bottom of the screen for triggering confirmations or status updates. It is independent of scrolling and can be applied to specific objects or the entire page. See our [OnyxBottomBar](https://storybook.onyx.schwarz/?path=/docs/navigation-bottombar--docs) component for the technical usage.
::

</steps>

<app-layout-preview />
</layout-container>

All available options regarding content alignment and max-width can be found in our [grid documentation](/introduction/foundation/breakpoints-and-grid).

::content-tabs
#dev
For easy technical usage, we strongly recommend using our [OnyxAppLayout](https://storybook.onyx.schwarz/?path=/docs/layout-applayout--docs) and [OnyxPageLayout](https://storybook.onyx.schwarz/?path=/docs/layout-pagelayout--docs) components. Here is an example of a basic app layout to get started:

```vue [Basic app layout]
<script lang="ts" setup>
import { OnyxAppLayout, OnyxPageLayout, OnyxNavBar, OnyxNavItem } from "sit-onyx";
</script>

<template>
  <OnyxAppLayout>
    <template #navBar>
      <OnyxNavBar app-name="App name" logo-url="/logo.svg">
        <OnyxNavItem label="Home" link="/" />
      </OnyxNavBar>
    </template>

    <OnyxPageLayout> Page content... </OnyxPageLayout>
  </OnyxAppLayout>
</template>
```

#ux
Follow the steps below to create a new Figma frame for a page layout:

<steps>

::step
#headline
Create new frame

#default
First, create a new frame. We recommend to use the "Desktop => Wireframes" size (1440x1024px) if you don't have any other requirements.
::

::step
#headline
Define background fill

#default
Select the frame that you have just created and set its "Fill" to the `onyx/color/base/background/tinted` variable using the "Libraries" menu. This ensures that the frame background is set correctly and updates accordingly between light and dark mode.
::

::step
#headline
Add components

#default
The frame is now ready to be used. Add your required components (e.g. nav bar, sidebar etc.) to the frame and manually adjust their width / height if needed.
::

</steps>

## Component layout

Internal component structures are always left-aligned. The only exception to this rule is within table columns, which may utilize center or right alignment for specific data types.

<layout-container>

::image-do-dont-card{color="success"}
Left align the content within components.

#image
<component-layout-preview />
::

::image-do-dont-card{color="danger"}
Don't use center or right alignments within components. Exceptions like table columns might still exist.

#image
<component-layout-preview align="center" />
::
</layout-container>

## Visual Rhythm & Grouping

To establish a sense of structure, we focus on the visual and functional connection between elements:

<steps>

::step
#headline
Proportion & Balance

#default
Maintaining balanced proportions across content sections ensures a smooth, professional appearance.
::

::step
#headline
Spatial Grouping

#default
Objects sharing similar functionality or content should be visually clustered. We use open space (white space), typography, and dividers to distinguish these groups and reduce cognitive load.
::

</steps>
