---
title: Installation
description: Welcome to the onyx design system! In this section, we will show you how can easily install onyx for getting started with the Vue components and the Figma library.
---

# Installation

In this section, we will show you how can easily install our design system for getting started with the Vue components and the Figma library.

## Getting Started with Vue

::info-card{headline="Editors note" color="neutral"}
Visual idea: Decision tree to select which type of application / installation should be done (because the installation steps differ here):

- Components only (plain Vue library)
- Nuxt module
- Documentation template
- Vue Blueprint (for Schwarz internal users)

::

We assume that you have already set up a basic Vue application. If thats not the case, we recommend to head over to the [Vue](https://vuejs.org/guide/quick-start.html) or [Nuxt](https://nuxt.com/docs/4.x/getting-started/installation) documentation and initialize a basic application there. Afterwards, you can continue with the steps described here.

### Using Vue only

This is the basic setup for installing our design system in any Vue application. If you are using Nuxt, the installation is simplified by the onyx Nuxt module. Please skip this section then and follow the [Using Nuxt](#using-nuxt) guide below.

First, install the `sit-onyx` npm package with your favorite package manager:

:npm-install-code-tabs{packages="sit-onyx"}

Afterwards, import the CSS styles and setup the Vue plugin for providing global options, enable the Vue Router integration and more:

```vue [main.ts]
import { createApp } from "vue";
import { createOnyx } from "sit-onyx";

import "sit-onyx/style.css";

// by default, no styles will have side affects on your global application styles like <body> etc.
// when building a whole application with our design system, we recommend also importing the following global styles
// which will apply the correct application background color, font styles etc.:
// import "sit-onyx/global.css";

const onyx = createOnyx({
  // if you are using Vue Router, make sure to pass it here be enable the router integration
  // router: createRouter(),
});

const app = createApp(App);
app.use(onyx);
```

### Using Nuxt

When using Nuxt, you just need to install and register our Nuxt module to get started.

:npm-install-code-tabs{packages="@sit-onyx/nuxt"}

And then register the module in your Nuxt application:

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  modules: ["@sit-onyx/nuxt"],
  onyx: {
    // optional module options here...
  },
});
```

For further information about our Nuxt module, please visit the [Nuxt module documentation](/resources/npm-packages/nuxt).

## Getting Started with Figma

::info-card{headline="Restricted access" color="warning"}
The access to our Figma library is currently restricted to employees of the Schwarz Group only. If you have further questions regarding this, please [get in contact](/support) with us.
::

To access all our components, styles etc. in Figma, you need to add our library to your design file.
Follow the [official Figma guide](https://help.figma.com/hc/en-us/articles/1500008731201-Add-or-remove-a-library-from-a-design-file) to add our library.

For further information about using our Figma library, please visit our [Figma library documentation](/introduction/getting-started/figma-library).
