# First steps

In this section, you will find useful recommendations about key principles and first steps you should consider when creating a new application.
Even if you have already build other applications with our design system before, you can understand the following steps as a checklist for getting started with every new application.

::info-card{headline="Editors note" color="neutral"}
This page is basically a summary / checklist about advanced onyx topics (layouts, grid, theming etc.) where one simple action is required from the user immediately for a new project. But the full principle is documented on a dedicated sub page (Read more link). Is there a nice way to visualize this?
::

## Layouts

We provide basic layout components for the application itself and every page so you don't have to care about correctly implementing scroll containers, placing the navigation, sidebars and more. Therefore, we strongly recommend to use the following layouts in your application.

### App layout

The app layout should be used once at the root component of your application (`App.vue` for plain Vue projects and `app/app.vue` for Nuxt projects) and is responsible to placing the global navigation and the page content. Technically, it also provides basic functionality for e.g. correctly showing [toasts](/resources/components/feedback) and [notifications](/resources/components/notifications).

Here is an example implementation that includes a basic nav bar and renders the current page.

#### Vue

```vue [App.vue]
<script lang="ts" setup>
import { OnyxAppLayout, OnyxNavBar, OnyxNavItem } from "sit-onyx";
import { RouterView } from "vue-router";
</script>

<template>
  <OnyxAppLayout>
    <template #navBar>
      <OnyxNavBar app-name="Example app">
        <OnyxNavItem label="Page 1" link="/page-1" />
        <OnyxNavItem label="Page 2" link="/page-2" />
      </OnyxNavBar>
    </template>

    <RouterView />
  </OnyxAppLayout>
</template>
```

#### Nuxt

```vue [app/app.vue]
<template>
  <OnyxAppLayout>
    <template #navBar>
      <OnyxNavBar app-name="Example app">
        <OnyxNavItem label="Page 1" link="/page-1" />
        <OnyxNavItem label="Page 2" link="/page-2" />
      </OnyxNavBar>
    </template>

    <NuxtRouteAnnouncer />

    <NuxtLayout>
      <NuxtPage />
    </NuxtLayout>
  </OnyxAppLayout>
</template>
```

For further information, available slots, customization etc., please visit the [app layout documentation](/resources/templates/app-layout).

### Page layout

The page layout should be used on every individual page of your application and is responsible for correct scroll behavior, default page content spacings and easily placing common layout components like sidebars and footers.

```vue [views/HomeView.vue]
<script lang="ts" setup>
import { OnyxHeadline, OnyxPageLayout } from "sit-onyx";
</script>

<template>
  <OnyxPageLayout>
    <OnyxHeadline is="h1">Hello World</OnyxHeadline>
  </OnyxPageLayout>
</template>
```

If you need to place common components on every page (e.g. a sidebar or footer), we recommend to create a reusable component or [Nuxt layout](https://nuxt.com/docs/4.x/directory-structure/app/layouts) where the `OnyxPageLayout` component is used and then use your custom component / Nuxt layout in the individual pages.

For further information, available slots, customization etc., please visit the [page layout documentation](/resources/templates/page-layout).

## Grid

Another decision that you should make when creating a new application is which configuration the overall layout grid should have in your application.
We won't go into details about our grid concept here but if you are interested, you can read more in our [grid documentation](/introduction/foundation/breakpoints-and-grid).

For now, you should basically decide on two things:

- which maximum width should your content have?
- how should the content be aligned?

For users with very large screens (e.g. 4k or wide screen monitors), letting the content stretch to the full width might not be intended and let's the user loose focus on the main content.

Here is an example configuration that limits the content width to the max. allowed width of the `lg` breakpoint (1920px) and will center align the content when it exceeds this width. This is our recommended setup for most applications.

```vue [App.vue]
<script lang="ts" setup>
import { OnyxAppLayout } from "sit-onyx";
</script>

<template>
  <!-- you can also use the "onyx-grid-max-md" class or none to not limit the width at all -->
  <OnyxAppLayout class="onyx-grid-max-lg onyx-grid-center">
    <!-- your app content here... -->
  </OnyxAppLayout>
</template>
```

## Typography

Our design system does not include any font families by default so you are free to choose whichever fonts you like. However, if you don't have any specific font requirements, we recommend to use "Source Sans 3" as default and "Source Code Pro" as monospace font family.

For further information, please visit our [typography documentation](/introduction/foundation/typography).

::info-card{headline="Build-in themes"}
When using one of our [build-in themes](/introduction/foundation/colors) you don't need to setup the fonts manually since they will be included in the corresponding theme.
::

To install the recommended font families, run:

:npm-install-code-tabs{packages="@fontsource-variable/source-sans-3 @fontsource-variable/source-code-pro"}

and then import the fonts in your project:

### Using Vue

```ts [main.ts]
import "@fontsource-variable/source-code-pro";
import "@fontsource-variable/source-sans-3";
```

### Using Nuxt

```ts [nuxt.config.ts]
export default defineNuxtConfig({
  css: ["@fontsource-variable/source-code-pro", "@fontsource-variable/source-sans-3"],
});
```

## Theming

Our design system includes a default theme out-of-the-box which will define a basic color palette. However, if you want to use custom colors / themes, you can either use one of our [pre-defined themes](/introduction/foundation/colors) or create your own theme.

::info-card{headline="Custom theme" color="warning"}
The documentation for building a custom theme is currently missing. We might offer a custom theme generator in the future.
For now, you need to override the [colors](/introduction/foundation/colors) manually.
::

## Custom styles

::info-card{headline="Editors note" color="neutral"}
In my opinion, that does not belong here. Maybe we can make a "How-Tos" or "Tutorials" section where we explain such things?
::

For most cases, all components already provide properties to easily use supported features and styles. However, there might be some custom requirements in your project where you need to override styles / CSS.
All our components are designed to be easily customizable with CSS. Just look up the CSS class that you want to customize via your browser dev tools and define your custom CSS as shown below.

```vue
<script lang="ts" setup>
import { OnyxInput } from "sit-onyx";
</script>

<template>
  <OnyxInput label="Example label" />
</template>

<style scoped>
:deep(.onyx-form-element__label) {
  color: red;
}
</style>
```

Note: The `:deep()` selector is required by Vue because we are using Vue's [scoped styles](https://vuejs.org/api/sfc-css-features#scoped-css) here. If you don't use `scoped`, you can remove the `:deep()` selector but note that your custom CSS might be global then and affect every component of your application. For further information, please refer to Vue's documentation about the [deep selector](https://vuejs.org/api/sfc-css-features#deep-selectors).

## Figma

::info-card{headline="Editors note" color="neutral"}
Migrate content from the existing [Figma Onboarding](https://www.figma.com/design/t41Pc5yPbcjI6Cz3yIVawI/Onyx-Onboarding?node-id=0-1&p=f&t=feSFyRdXMPMiiq3O-0) file.
::

### Setup file

::info-card{headline="Internal" color="warning"}
Only for internal projects of the Schwarz Group.
::

- Add "Thumbnail Library - UX Schwarz IT"
- setup project thumbnail
- structure file with flows + "Screenflow Cover" from thumbnail library

### Configure page

- Under "Appearance": Select onyx theme and density

### Create frame

- Create new frame (default for desktop: Full HD (1920 x 1080px))
- set fill color to `onyx/color/base/background/tinted`
- select layout / grid
