---
title: Technologies
description: "Querverweise auf unsere Technologien oder Ecosysteme verweisen: Blueprint + Nuxt, etc"
---

# Technologies

// joca: Wäre mMn sinnvoll das Router Kapitel auch in foundation zu packen. Ist für mich equivalent zum i18n thema.

## Vue Router integration

The onyx design system integrates with [Vue Router](https://router.vuejs.org/) but also functions independently. When you use it with Vue Router, it includes the following features:

- When you pass links to components like the [OnyxLink](https://storybook.onyx.schwarz/?path=/docs/navigation-link--docs) or [OnyxNavBar](https://storybook.onyx.schwarz/?path=/docs/navigation-navbar--docs) components, the system opens internal links (such as `/my-page`) through the provided Vue router.
- The system uses native browser behavior for external links, internal links with `target="_blank"`, or instances where no router is provided.
- The system automatically sets the active state of navigation and menu items based on the current route.
- Mobile flyouts for the navigation bar, such as the burger and context menus, close automatically when the current route changes. This happens, for example, when a user clicks a navigation item.

## Setup

If you use the [Nuxt module](/resources/npm-packages/nuxt), the router setup is already configured.

To enable the Vue Router integration, pass your router instance when you create the plugin using `createOnyx()`.

```ts [main.ts]
import { createApp } from "vue";
import { createOnyx } from "sit-onyx";
import { createRouter } from "vue-router";

const router = createRouter({
  // Router options
});

const onyx = createOnyx({ router });

const app = createApp(App);
app.use(router).use(onyx);
```

Use the onyx components to ensure that links are handled correctly.
All button-like components, including navigation items, can function as either a link or a button.
To implement this, set the link attributes using the `link` property.

```html
<OnyxButton label="Schwarz Digits IT" link="https://schwarz-digits.de/" />
```

Consider using one of these components:

- [OnyxButton](https://storybook.onyx.schwarz/?path=/story/buttons-button--with-link)
- [OnyxIconButton](https://storybook.onyx.schwarz/?path=/story/buttons-iconbutton--with-link)
- [OnyxSystemButton](https://storybook.onyx.schwarz/?path=/story/buttons-systembutton--with-link)
- [OnyxMenuItem](https://storybook.onyx.schwarz/?path=/story/basic-menuitem--with-link)
- [OnyxNavItem](https://storybook.onyx.schwarz/?path=/story/navigation-navbar-modules-navitem--with-link)

For more advanced use cases, use the headless alternatives: You can implement the unstyled [`OnyxRouterLink`](https://storybook.onyx.schwarz/?path=/docs/support-routerlink--docs) or the `useLink` composable to build a custom link component.

```vue
<script lang="ts" setup>
import { useLink } from "@sit-onyx";

const { navigate, isActive } = useLink();
</script>

<template>
  <a
    :href="props.href"
    :target="props.target"
    :aria-current="isActive(props.href) ? true : undefined"
    @click="navigate($event, props.href)"
  >
    <slot></slot>
  </a>
</template>
```

---

# Technologies

Querverweise auf unsere Technologien oder Ecosysteme verweisen: Blueprint + Nuxt, etc

## Vue Router integration

onyx nicely integrates with the [Vue Router](https://router.vuejs.org/) of your application. This brings the following features:

- when passing links to components (e.g. OnyxLink or OnyxNavBar), internal links like `/my-page` or opened via the provided Vue router. External links, internal links with `target="_blank"` or if no router is provided, will be opened using browser-native behavior.
- the active state of the OnyxNavItem and OnyxMenuItem will be automatically set depending on the current route
- mobile flyouts of the OnyxNavBar (burger and context menu) will automatically be closed when the current route changes (e.g. because the user has clicked a nav item)

### Setup

#### Nuxt

If you are using the onyx [Nuxt module](/resources/npm-packages/nuxt), the router setup is already configured for you.

To enable the Vue Router integration with onyx, simply pass your router instance when creating the onyx plugin via `createOnyx()`:

```ts [main.ts]
import { createApp } from "vue";
import { createOnyx } from "sit-onyx";
import { createRouter } from "vue-router";

const router = createRouter({
  // your router options
});

const onyx = createOnyx({ router });

const app = createApp(App);
app.use(router).use(onyx);
```
